Did Library School Change Me?
Published on July 27, 2009.
Looking back on my old posts from before I went to school at a hybrid Information/Library Science school, my opinions of librarians seemed fueled by a bit of prejudice.
For example, in my visiting days post I wrote:
I sat down at a table whose occupants were librarians.
Pretty much everyone there was an LIS (library and information services) specialist.
This wasn’t really a great first impression, since I applied under the HCI (human-computer interaction) specialization, and to be honest, libraries aren’t really my thing.
What, exactly, did I have against librarians and libraries?
I think I mostly felt that, from the school’s website (or the parts of the website that I studied), the program was more for people who were generally interested in information from a more technology-oriented viewpoint.
So I was hoping to see more technological-minded folks at my table.
I still, however, decided to enroll.
And I’m glad I did.
Slowly, I think I started to understand what libraries are all about.
I started using the local library .
A lot. It probably also helped that I worked at a library my entire time at the school.
I wasn’t studying to be a librarian, but I was exposed to the culture.
Computer nerds and librarians make a good team.
So did library school actually change me?
Or was I somehow intrinsically drawn to the program where computer nerds and book nerds collide?
Maybe a little of both.
I’ve always had a secret love for organizing and archiving things.
For example, pretty much no one in my family seems to care much about backing up files.
I, on the hand, am a bit obsessed about it.
I still have files from middle school preserved in their original file formats and directory structure in place.
Who knows, some day I might want to look back on that stuff.
I’m also kind of a nut when it comes to properly organizing and applying metadata (and preserving said metadata) from photos.
Oh, and also backing everything up, both on-site and off-site (using multiple online services).
I also get really irritated when I go to the library and see something like this:
Is that a Drama and Horror blu-ray disc I see mixed in with the Action ones!?
Usually I will take the offending discs and put them in the right place.
There was also that one time I saw Harry Potter in Comedy when it should have gone in Fantasy .
The worst is when a DVD gets mixed in with blu-ray.
That’s like the same as a book being in the CD section!
Oh man, now I’m rambling.
The point is, I think I already had some Librarian/Archivist in me before coming to library school.
Hanging out with like-minded people probably reinforced the behavior mentioned above.
And probably for the better.
If you’re a computer nerd, I suggest you check out libraries (and librarians!).
If you’re a library nerd, I suggest you check out computer nerd stuff (and computer nerds!).
Together, we can make the world a more information-y place.